---
author: elliott
layout: post
title: "23rd class - Contributing, Commit access, and advanced git"
---

## Announcements 
* Pygame hacking - questions?
* Project proposal - questions?
* Personal workflows


## Contribtuing guidelines
If you want people to contribute to your project it helps to have contributor guidelines.  Not too restrictive and not too lax.  THis helps people know that work they spend on a pull request is unlikely to be wasted by not being what you want.

We've all been contribtuing to the class website and today we'll formalize our contributor guidelines, Gettting Started, and any other documentation our project needs to be complete.  To do this, we'll need examples of other projects that have done this well or poorly to emulate or avoid.  

## Group exercise

Pick one of the following to research as a group for about 15 minutes.  Be prepared to give some examples and what you liked or disliked about them, and a sketch of what you think We should have for this class.  Get feedback, then work on that section of the README or create a new file and submit a pull request! This is a group activity, but the pull request will come from one person.  Here are things that mature projects should have: 
 
* Contributor guideslines
* Getting started
* License
* Diversity statement
* Developer reference materials

Some of these may not be appropriate for our class, so as you research them and recommend something, it's OK to recommend that we not do anything.  But you should still provide examples so we know what a good one looks like.

## Advanced Git

Pro Git is the best git reference out there.  The section on [re-writing history](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History) is what we'll go over today if there's time.  `git commit --amend` and `git rebase -i` will be useful for you during projects.