---
author: elliott
layout: post
title: "22nd class - Pygame, more git, and (maybe) Contributor guidelines"
---

## Announcements 
* Project questions?  [Choosealicense.com](http://choosealicense.com/)
* Feedback form

## Pygame!  Starpusher!  Hacking!

1 - Install pygame.  You should do this via 

```
sudo apt-get install python-pygame
```

2 - Fork & Clone Silshack/starpusher.  Go to [http://github.com/silshack/starpusher](http://github.com/silshack/starpusher) and click fork.  Then, 

```
git clone https://github.com/{your-username}/starpusher.git
```
(Note that github automatically adds the origin and remotes for us!)

3 - Run the program.  

```
cd starpusher
python starpusher.py
```
Play around to get a sense of what you can do.

4 - Read the program.  In a new terminal:

```
cd starpusher 
nano starpusher.py
```
See if you can get a sense of what the program does and how.  There are some helpful variations at the top.  A hint: read the program from the bottom (what it does) then the functions or classes it uses (and how).

5 - Hack the program.  Close starpusher.  Make a new branch:

```
git branch hack-starpusher     # makes branch
git checkout hack-starpusher   # moves you to branch
```
Now, hackity hack!  Some ideas: 
 
 
* Change the frame rates or other variables at the top
* Change the images in the images dict (you can find and download new pngs or, try installing GIMP: `sudo apt-get install gimp`.  It's a photoshop clone and will let you modify the images with filters, etc.) 
* Change some of the rules of the game
* Make new levels.  Edit `starPusherLevels.txt` to do this.  See if you can figure out how to jump to a specific level.


Some reminders: 

 
* If you want to undo your changes permanently, type: `git reset --hard`
* You can make new branches for different hacks!  But you should `git checkout master` first, so the branch is off oc master, not your hackity hack.
* To merge changes back in (to combine image and frame rate hacks, for instance)
* Commit early and often.  You can then `git reset {commit ID}` to undo those commits and re-commit them more intelligibly.

## Assignment 
Due Weds, but totally doable today: A post showing some of the hackity hacks you've made.  Screenshots & code.  Bonus points for walkthrough-quality work.

## If we get to it: Contributor Guidelines
We need contributor guidelines for our class site.  Who can contribute?  What requirements do we place on them?  Once we have these guidelines, we'll make everyone in class a committer to the repo!